After I looked over the class proposals, I was the most interested in Thomas Cleary's App. He cleverly created a fictitious company name for an application that can upload and then play oral histories. Sabina and I were one of two groups with two people. We went to work on the app immediately.

A wonderful class during the semester was on March 20th, when we had the two developers present to the class. Their MSCW technique and uncertainty to clarity model were instrumental throughout the project. Also the class time where we coded together and discussed the readings in depth were instrumental in working with Sabina in a meaningful way.

Shorty after we became developers for Thomas, Sabina and I went to work. One of the first techniques I utilized was pencil and paper to draw out a wire frame. Each wire frame I drew always had three main pages; Home/About, Add, Archive. The Home page had a description of the center. The Add page was a form with important details about the oral history and add sections for audio, image and text files. Through the weeks these fields were changed numerous times and added and deleted. With the Archive page we wanted to showcase the form inputs and where the user can play, pause, fast forward and rewind the audio file, and zoom in and out of the image documents.

After a few drawings, we decided to work on a webpage wire frame creator titled Invision. What was great about Invision was it can be edited by multiple users, it saved automatically, fairly simple to use, and we could easily share and show our client. A negative aspect was the finicky controls, especially when using on mobile devices.

Within the three pages we wanted additional pages. For instance, moving from the Home page to the Add page, we thought about having a warning pop up. Where the user had to read a note that stated they were about to add an oral history with additional legal jargon and then press a button before the user is allowed to fill in required information for the form. Other pages considered for the Add page were a Review page that would show you what you wrote down and how it may look once submitted and a Submitted page. The Submitted page would inform the user the content was submitted, then given a collection number and instructed to go to login page to then view and manage the content.

Additional pages were from the Archive page, this page was later titled Collection. This was the only alteration requested from our client after we shared the wire frame with him. Listed under the menu would have been collections added to the site thus far that would be hyperlinked. Once the specified collection is requested, the file would open with the materials inputted.

We worked on the wire frame for over a week and then shared it with our client. He like the layout, overall. At this point we also started to create an HTML page that utilized code from class; sloth emporium. For our first meeting we met at City College for six hours. During this one on one meeting we discussed our personal mvps, or what we considered the mvp and continued to rework wireframe.

Other locations we utilized for working on the site together was Sabina's apartment in Chelsea, coffee shops near the GC, the reading room of the Schwartzman building, and the schools master's student lounge and library. 

At this time we were shown Miguel's Flask tutorial and shortly there after made the decision to create the oral history app in Flask. We realized we needed to work in Flask so we can create databases and have the site recall a certain database when searched.

I worked on the Flask Mega Tutorial until I wasn't able to proceed with it anymore. I initially, was not able to do a pip install or set my virtual environment and this sent me on a wild goose chase for a little over a week. Due to not being able to proceed with those tasks I looked for another Flask web app tutorial to follow. I was able to find a few and utilized two to create pages and a form page. The Flask page I used kept the title and menu as the header and below that changed depending on what page you were on. For the form on the Add page I was able to create code for the descriptions we wanted, but a major issue I had was getting the information to query or show on the Collections page.

Of the three meetings Sabina and I had with the digital fellows, the most fruitful was the meeting where Kristen was able to help me be able to pip install. We looked through Slackoverflow and many other sites before Kristen found an a resource that stated to uninstall and then reinstall Anaconda, but to make sure a specific section was checked; the route section. Which was very disheartening. I went through the tutorial on Github, initially, but must has missed something.

Other difficulties I faced was design. I was able to implement design to the sloth page we created in class, but was never able to have any of the css pages I created adhere to the page. I attempted to pip install bootstrap, but I was not able to get this to work.

Sabina and I continued to make changes to the original site until about two weeks ago. We continued to make alterations to the introductory paragraph and added an image we thought represented the app. We also continued to edit the form inputs. Also, during this time Sabina started to create indepth storylines for individuals to be used as a template to see how the page would look.

A major shift took place when Sabina showed me the site she worked on with Patrick Sweeney while I was in Georgia for my wife's graduation. She had been working to jsonify, then was working on a login page in Flask. When I came back that weekend and met with her I was really impressed with the work Sabina was able to create with Patrick. The user is able to create a username and when that user is created an avatar is uploaded to the account. Then the user can add text that is uploaded and can be viewed for future use.

Another aspect to our app was the creation of an introductory page. So, future users know how access and use the site. Thomas was kind to share an introductory page from a repository he created in Github from another class and we used this as a template for our introductory page.
